Daniel Sánchez Domínguez

**Software Engineer**

(+52) 811 84 71 700

<amaniel2718@protonmail.com>

# PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE {#professional-experience .unnumbered}

*16.Oct.2023 - Dic.2023*

**Automation project for RISTOC**

*Project to automate the workflow of an online automotive parts store.
The developed components included: a **PostgreSQL** database, backend
logic implemented in **Python**, integration with Shopify and automated
workflows using **Zapier**.*

20-23.Sep.20233rd place: Hackaton Cripto México Tijuana Developed a
functional MVP of a **Liquidity Stake** over the **VARA** network. The
**smart contracts** were programmed in **Rust**.

*17.Aug.2023*

**Rust Trainer in a Workshop at CryptoLatin Fest**

*Conducted a workshop targeting developers interested in learning
**Rust** and writing smart contracts with **Ink!**.*

Jul.2023 - CurrentlyCriptoMx Guardian ProtocolBlockchain Developer
Working at the design of smart contracts in **Rust** to implement a
liquidity staking protocol in the **VARA** network.

*07.Jun.2023*

**Rust Trainer in a Workshop at Univ. Iberoamericana**

*Workshop oriented to university students, focused to teach them solid
foundations on **Rust** and writing smart contracts with **Ink!**.*

Apr.2023 - \...Freelancing projects Working to develop a basic
cybersecurity toolchain (a Fuzzer and Static Analyzer) for analyzing
vulnerabilities in WASM binaries used in **Ink!** smart contracts.
Utilizing **Rust** for the implementation.

*15.Jan.2022 - 19.Dec.2022*

**John Deere**

*Worked in an Agile team using Linux, Python, C, and ARM.
Accomplishments include designing and implementing a kernel driver for
communication between a processor and a microprocessor through UART and
the IOP protocol, developing a Python CLI app for booting only USBs with
verified ISO images in Windows, resolved build issues in Jenkins, and
implementing a module in RTOS to convert CAN to Bluetooth. Also taught a
series of courses on Rust and its application in embedded systems to
engineers on the organization.*

Summer 2022 ABC LogisticaWeb Developer Contracted to document and
implement tests in PHP using the Laravel framework. Worked with
languages like SQL and JavaScript.

# EDUCATION {#education .unnumbered}

*Jan.2023-Feb.2023*

**Polkadot Blockchain Academy**

*An in deepth course, research oriented, working with core libraries of
the **Substrate** framework in **Rust***

2018-2022 University studies as Network Engineer: **UANL** (Mexico)
Focused on sistems programming and embedded development

*Autumn 2020 - Summer 2021*

**The Coding School's Qubit by Qubit**

*Completed a two-semester Quantum Computing course using the **Qiskit**
framework*

Spring 2022 Plutus Pioneers 3rd Cohort: **IOHK** Completed a hands-on
course using **Haskell** to learn about the Cardano Blockchain and Smart
Contracts development.

# ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES {#academic-activities .unnumbered}

*10-22.Nov.2020*

**iGEM Competition**

*Modification of a bacterium for the expression of ranaspumins, a
thermo-resistant protein, for producing fire-fighting foam.*

Summer 2020X Escuela de Verano Virtual de Matemáticasorganized by the
**UNAM** Focus on numerical methods to model pandemic dynamics using
Python

*01-04.Nov.2019*

**iGEM Competition**

*Designed genetically engineered bacteria for digesting toxic compounds.
Used Python for numerical simulations and cluster computing. Created an
online wiki to document the project. Presented the project at the iGEM
competition in Boston, USA.*

Autumn 2019Túnel de la biología sintéticaScientific divulgation activity

*Autumn 2019*

**Program: CON-CIENCIA UANL**

*Program to promote STEM skills aimed at low-income high school
students. Conducted a course on programming concepts and digital
electronics.*

04-20.Sep.2019Course: Biotecnología de Cianobacterias y Microalgas:
**FCB-UANL** Hands-on workshop given by MSc. Alejandra Torres Ariño,
aimed to learn how to extract microalgae, cultivate cyanobacteria and
count organisms under a microscope.

*Summer 2019*

**Course: Biotecnología Aplicada a Biomedicina Molecular**

*Hands-on course given by MSc. Heber Torres Cordero, to learn DNA
extraction techniques, protein purification, and identification of
diseases through molecular techniques.*

Feb.2019Olimpiada del Conocimientoorganized by the UANL: 3rd place

*Sep.2017*

**Festival Internacional y Masterclass de Piano**

*Participation as pianist interpeter*

Jul.20172º Concurso Nacional de Piano: **Universidad de Guadalajara**

*30.01.2015*

**Concurso Nacional de Jóvenes Pianistas Parnassós**

Skills and Qualifications

## Languages {#languages .unnumbered}

*Native tongue*

Spanish

*C1*

English

*A2*

French

## Programming Languages {#programming-languages .unnumbered}

*Advanced*

Bash/Linux

*Advanced*

Python

*Proeficient*

Rust

*Proeficient*

C

*Intermediate*

Haskell

*Basic Skills*

PHP/Laravel

# LINKS OF INTEREST {#links-of-interest .unnumbered}

*Github*

[DanEscher98](https://github.com/DanEscher98)

*LinkedIn*

[Danyiel Colin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danyiel-colin)

*Dev.to*

[Technical blog](https://dev.to/danescher98)

*iGEM project*

[iGEM UANL 2019](https://2019.igem.org/Team:UANL)

*iGEM project*

[iGEM FCB-UANL 2020](https://2020.igem.org/Team:FCB-UANL)

*Workshop*

[Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/live/ikxfT709f3k?feature=share&t=1h56m)
Rust Workshop in Spanish
